Two Year Anniversary of Lo Fi Coffee
-----

Today is my two year Anniversary of opening up my coffee shop in Downtown Mesa, Lo Fi Coffee.  I still can't believe I opened up my own business two years ago.  Today I'm going to tell the tale about how my venture into business ownership came into being.

In December of 2010 I really didn't have a lot going for me seriously.  I had just finished my first season of wildland firefighting for thef orest service in Tonto National Forest.  I was also working for my buddy dave at his current coffee shop, "Coffee & Tea Express".  Needless to say I was 28 and not in a very inspirational position.  I was mereley biding my time before I would start my next season for the USFS in Missoula, Montana, which I was very excited for.  I had been tasked with finding a new location for placing a coffee cart for my boss Kathy at the time.

I had tried about three different community colleges; however, due to contract privileges with Starbucks it did not look like we would be able to place it on one of them.  I contacted my friend Michelle who had re-opened The Nile in Downtown Mesa recently, and she told me she was interested in putting a coffee shop in the front room of The Nile.  I went immediately over to talk to them about the prospect of just placing a coffee cart in the front room.  I met the owner of The Nile Corey, and he told me that he wanted to do a full on coffee shop build out.  I don't remember how, but I do remember the day that I agreed to actually building out the coffee shop.  Michelle, Randy(the roaster), and myself were all sitting at The Deuce in Downtown Phoenix talking about the logistics of putting in a coffee cart, and we realized that it would be much cheaper and much more efficient to just do a full build out.  Hence the idea for the buildout of Lo Fi Coffee was born.

Over the next five months we built out the coffee shop and completely revamped the front room and store space of The Nile Theater in little sleep Downtown Mesa.  It was quite a wild adventure.  We were working with a building that had a very old building with a very precarious history.  One of the quirks about doing business in The Nile is dealing with the history of The Nile.  First and foremost, the building is really really old, secondly, it has served several functions through out history, and thirdly it's most recent history is EXTREMELY interesting history.  It had recently been revamped as a church.

We started the buildout in February and it ended in May.  By June 14th we had our licenses in order and our ducks in a row and we flipped the open sign.  To be honest I wasn't quite expecting the change that would happen to my personal life during that period.  I definitely have learned a lot about myself, and the capacity to learn.  I have also been humbled in so many ways, by both my employees and my customers.  I am extremely thankful to be in the situation I am in today, and I am happy to say that I am the owner of Lo Fi Coffee Still.

-Sam
